<div id="patternMainContents"><div class="twikiContentHeader"></div><div class="patternContent"><div class="patternTopic"> <h2><a name="Homework_10_Performance_of_Concu"></a> Homework 10: Performance of Concurrent Programs </h2>
<p>
In this homework, we'll study the relative performance of several synchronization methods, first through a basic counter, and then in a concurrent hash table. Your template is available in <code>svn://bits.cs.uic.edu/cs361/pub/homeworks/hw10</code>
</p><p>
</p><h2><a name="Counter_Synchronization"></a> Counter Synchronization </h2>
<p>
For this part, we revisit our old go-to problem of counting. The template contains a basic multi-threaded application <code>counter.c</code>, without synchronization, which produces an incorrect final count. Your job is to create several alternative implementations of the functions <code>init()</code> and <code>increment()</code>, using different techniques to ensure properly synchronized access to the counter. Copy <code>nosync.c</code> to create each of the implementations below.
</p><p> </p><ul>
<li> <strong>pthread_mutex.c</strong> - use the standard pthread mutex operations to synchronize access.
</li> <li> <strong>semaphores.c</strong> - use standard pthread mutexes to synchronize access
</li> <li> <strong>atomicincrement.c</strong> - use the <code>LOCK INCL</code> assembly instruction to ensure atomic counter increments
</li> <li> <strong>futex.c</strong> - use the Linux futex system call, together with the <code>CMPXCHG</code> assembly instruction, as shown in class to synchronize access
</li></ul> 
<p>
For each implementation, note the mean runtime in a file called <code>counter_runtime.txt</code>. 
</p><p>
</p><h2><a name="Concurrent_Data_Structure"></a> Concurrent Data Structure </h2>
<p>
In this part, we study the performance impact of different synchronization strategies on a concurrent datastructure. The file <code>hashmap.c</code> contains a basic hash table implementation without synchronization, and <code>hashmain.c</code> contains an application that uses the hash table. Copy hashmap.c to new files named as below, and create concurrent hashtables using several synchronization methods. 
</p><p> </p><ul>
<li> <strong>globallock.c</strong> - synchronize the basic hash table using a single global lock held for both the <code>get()</code> and <code>put()</code> operations.
</li> <li> <strong>optimistic.c</strong> - use atomic increments to track a global version number, implement get() with optimistic concurrency (no locking)
</li> <li> <strong>finegrained.c</strong> - synchronize the basic hash table using 64 locks, distributed evenly over the 1024 hash buckets. 
</li></ul> 
<p>
For each implementation, note the mean runtime in a file called <code>hashmap_runtime.txt</code>. 
</p><p>
</p><h2><a name="Turn_in_instructions"></a> Turn-in instructions </h2>
<p>
Don't forget to <code>svn add</code> your files and <code>svn commit</code>, including the runtime files described above. </p></div><!-- /patternTopic-->
<div class="twikiContentFooter"></div></div><!-- /patternContent-->
<a name="topic-actions"></a><div class="patternTopicActions"><div class="patternTopicAction"><span class="patternActionButtons"></span></div><!--/patternTopicAction--></div><!--/patternTopicActions-->
</div>